---
layout: post
title: "Protecting your SFTPPlus configuration against SWEET32"
description: "An article on mitigating against SWEET32 birthday attacks."
comments: true
keywords: "file transfer protocols, security, sftp, server, client"
---

This was an article written for a secure file transfer product.

[Read more here](https://www.sftpplus.com/articles/2018/sftpplus-hardeningconfig-sweet32.html)

---

# Full content below

Details of attacks on DES (Data Encryption Standard) and Triple DES, Birthday attacks on 64-bit block ciphers were released with the CVE ID of CVE-2016-2183.
Read `more about the CVE details here <https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-2183>`_).

DES and Triple DES ciphers, used in TLS and SSH protocols and in subsequent relation also used in file transfer products, have a birthday bound of approximately four billion blocks.
This makes it easier for remote attackers to obtain cleartext data via a birthday attack against a long-duration encrypted session, as demonstrated by an HTTPS session using Triple DES in CBC mode.
This attack is otherwise known as the "SWEET32" attack.

If your SFTPPlus configuration is vulnerable to these attacks, you will need to ensure that you are on the latest SFTPPlus MFT version 3.xx.xx series and use the following custom configurations outlined below.

From SFTPPlus version 3.31.0, you can use the `secure` cipher option
for the `ssl_cipher_list` and `ssh_cipher_list` configurations.
The special keyword `secure` contains all the algorithms that we currently consider secure.

From version 3.32.0, the default `secure` `ssl_cipher_list` configuration was updated to
`HIGH:!PSK:!RSP:!eNULL:!aNULL:!RC4:!MD5:!DES:!3DES:!aDH:!kDH:!DSS` where `HIGH` is defined by upstream OpenSSL.

In this way, when updating the OpenSSL library, you will automatically get an update in the list
of secure ciphers without the need to update SFTPPlus.


## Exclude DES and Triple-DES from the SSL Cipher List

SFTPPlus relies on OS crypto for the SSL/TLS portion.
There is no need to run this configuration if your operating system has already deprecated the use of DES/3DES.

To check if your OpenSSL has DES and 3DES ciphers enabled, check the output of `openssl ciphers -v 'DES:3DES'`

If DES/3DES are still available in OpenSSL, disable them for SFTPPlus by ensuring that the `ssl_cipher_list` configuration for the service has the value `:!DES:!3DES:` added in the list.
This will *exclude* the use of DES and Triple DES as indicated by the `!` mark.

For more details about this configuration, please refer to `the ssl cipher list configuration option here </documentation/sftpplus/latest/configuration/ftp-service.html#ssl-cipher-list>`_.


## Exclude DES and Triple-DES from the SSH Cipher List

In the `ssh_cipher_list` configuration for the service, add the value `:!DES:!3DES:` to *exclude* the use of DES and Triple DES.
There is no need to run this configuration if your operating system has already deprecated the use of DES/3DES.

More details about this configuration `for the ssh cipher list here </documentation/sftpplus/latest/configuration/ssh-service.html#ssh-cipher-list>`_.


## Only use TLS 1.2 (for services utilizing TLS/SSL)

In the `ssl_allowed_methods` option for the associate service, add the value `tlsv1.2` to use TLS v1.2.

Ensure that `tlsv1.2` is the *only* value in `ssl_allowed_methods` so that this component will use TLS v1.2 during the secure communication handshake.

DES ciphers are used in TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1, but they are not available in TLS 1.2
as noted in `RFC 5469 <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5469>`_.

In the event that you still require communication with services still utilizing TLS 1.1 and/or TLS 1.0, you may add `tlsv1.1` and/or `tlsv1.0` providing that the DES and Triple-DES ciphers are excluded in the first instance.

More details about this configuration are available in our documentation `here </documentation/sftpplus/latest/configuration/ftp-service.html>`_.


## Confirming the SFTP configurations using openssl s_client

You can use `openssl s-client`, a diagnostic tool.

Connect via `openssl s_client -cipher 3DES -connect site:port` to check that 3DES is disabled.

To check the TLS version, the output will also reveal which TLS version is being used::

    SSL-Session:
        Protocol  : TLSv1.2
        Cipher    : 0000
        Session-ID: 
        Session-ID-ctx: 
        Master-Key: 
        Key-Arg   : None
        PSK identity: None
        PSK identity hint: None
        SRP username: None
        Start Time: 1519733544
        Timeout   : 300 (sec)
        Verify return code: 0 (ok)


## Confirming the FTPS configurations using curl

If you wish to use `curl` instead, there are two tests that you can run once these options are saved in your development lab.

Run `curl` with the excluded ciphers `DES-CBC3-SHA` and check that you cannot complete the operation.

`curl -v --ftp-ssl -k ftp://user@domain:port --ciphers DES-CBC3-SHA`

Run `curl` with the allowed TLS version and check that you are able to complete the operation.

`curl -v --ftp-ssl -k ftp://user@domain:port --tlsv1.2`

Using `--tlsv1.0` should fail the operation.


## Confirming the configuration from the log

SFTPPlus configurations can also be confirmed via the log.
For this issue, it should be done more as a supplementary step rather than as a sole point of confirmation of your configuration changes.

From the client-shell::

    | SFTPPlus (3.30.0) file transfer client shell
    | > connect
    | 20140 2018-02-04 10:23:03 uuid Process 0.0.0.0:0 Connecting resource "ftpse".
    | 10102 2018-02-04 10:23:03 uuid user localhost:10021 Location ftpse connected
      to the FTP server.
    | 10106 2018-02-04 10:23:03 uuid user localhost:10021 Connection to FTP/FTPS
      was authenticated for location ftpse. Protected using TLSv1.2
      ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384.
      Server certificate: (4) C=UK/O=ACME/CN=myserver.

From the server-side log::

    | 10067 2018-02-04 10:23:03 Process Unknown 127.0.0.1:55555 Client initiating
      authentication as "user".Command protected using TLSv1.2
      ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384.
      Client certificate: (2) C=GB/O=ACME/CN=myclient

The logs above indicate that `TLSv1.2` was used alongside the list of ciphers `ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384`.
Please note that just because TLSv1.2 is used, it does not indicate that other TLS versions are disabled.
